Day 3 of Internship at SurfBoard

In the first session, We went through the problems that were given as homework yesterday. Initially, I struggled with solving the sliding number puzzle but it was fun trying to solve it. Through these exercises, I realized that there are always constraints and operation possible to every puzzle or problem. It depends on how we analyse it and use the same to get to a solution. Since the puzzle really jogged my brain into thinking I just downloaded a game similar to it on my phone to exercise my mind. 

In the second session, We studied practically how to install Git and use it. Git is a software for tracking changes in any set of files, usually used for coordinating work among programmers collaboratively developing source code during software development. It is an integral part of development process among teams since it allows to efficiently collaborate with one another. It is also very useful to track changes throughout the development process and becomes easier to make changes by refering to the commits and logs of the repositries. Best part is that Git is free and open-source software. Git can be used through CLI as well as a GUI to push and commit source code. Git utilises a tree structure directory of the updates to have better visibility of tracking all updates being pushed to the remote server. We hit a roadblock while experimenting with Git today and were unable to push any file to the repositry due to an error so there is more to learn about Git in the coming classes as well as utilizing it for the future projects.

Today's understanding after Conversation with Employees:
1) Sivaraman (Backend Developer): We discussed about how he got into backend development after the internship he did previously and also how came to learn it even though he was completely into design. I realised that backend development may not be as difficult I thought it would be as long as one can understand the tools and logical data structures that are being used. Ofcourse a lot of hardwork would also be needed in order to get the required skills to do backend stuff.

2) Kalyan (Mobile Developer): Kalyan is actually very skilled in mobile development, I understood that he has practised a lot after seeing his github projects. I also understood that having a github repositry is like having a virtual portfolio of projects we have done. It inspired me to be able to do as many as I can in the upcoming days. As I was observing him, I noticed that whenever he hits a roadblock beyond his capability he either asks someone or check possible solutions through documentations and stackoverflow forums. 

3) Ram (FrontEnd Developer): Ram is actually a newly joined employee who is also doing the internship with us. The reason I added him here was because I was motivated after seeing his portfolio website which he created using Angular. I wanted to be able to do the same in the future and make a portfolio website entirely with code without any plugins whatsoever. 
